>> Maximiliano Firtman: Actually
ECMAScript is officially,
or legally the ECMA-262 that's
kind of the loan number,
okay, within the Ecma organization.
So and it's creating new
versions now once per year.
So ECMA-262 is actually ECMAScript,
not matter the version.
And then we have it in different versions.
For example, right now, as of today,
these are the versions.
We have from version,
we have even older versions.
But let's say that the latest
one that appears in the website,
it's the 13th edition.
Actually, we have also 14th.
But for some reason,
it's not on that list.
So every time you see ECMA-262
is actually JavaScript, okay?
ES, ECMAScript, JavaScript,
we're just talking about the same thing.
And the technical committee,
this is actually also a consecutive
number within the Ecma foundation,
it's 39.
So that means that when you see TC39,
it's the technical committee.
It's just a bunch of people from
companies that have an online group,
they have meetings, and
they propose new things.
They vote and those are the ones that
are defining the new things that will
appear in the language, okay?
So, then ECMAScript, it's a standard for
a scripting language.
The technical committee is TC-39,
and it's basically
the JavaScript used by browsers or
Node or ECMAScript engine.
So it's just the same, okay?
But there are other engines as well
that are using ECMAScript that are not
JavaScript.
For example, ActionScript.
It's kind of dead these days,
but ActionScript was the language
behind Flash, and
also it's still there for Apache Flex.
That was originally Adobe Flex and
then Apache,
now it's open source to create rich apps
client side but with with a flash player.
And it was using ActionScript.
And ,NET has today JScript.NET that it's
a .NET language, but based on ECMAScript.
And as we mentioned before,
since ES6 or ES2015, we will get into
that difference in a second, we have
one version published per year, okay?
As developers, we cannot specify
which version we want to use.
It's up to the engine where
the script is going to be executed.
The engine can be the user's browser,
or it can be the node engine.
Maybe if you're using Node,
you have more control because the version
of Node that you have, or you are using,
will actually define the version of
ECMAScript that will actually be executed.
But on the browser, of course, you don't
have control because it's up to the user.
So what happens if you use syntax of
an ECMAScript version that is not
supported on the engine running the code?
I mean you are using something new and
fancy but
then your user is on an old Firefox and
it's not supporting that feature.
So there are two possibilities.
It depends on the nature of the new
feature that you're using because
sometimes the new feature is a new
method available on objects or
available on arrays.
In those cases,
you will get a runtime exception because,
of course, that method is not
available in that browser.
But sometimes it's a new operator.
It's something new in the syntax itself.
Like, for example, we have a new operator
that will let you make the power of.
So two to the power of three.
We will see that later.
Well, it's a new operator,
it's double asterisk.
So if you run that on an older engine,
you will get a syntax error.
And let's say that syntax errors
are worse than runtime exceptions.
Because when the browser, when the engine
actually, finds a syntax error,
it stops rendering the rest
of the JavaScript code, okay?
So to know the ECMAScript version
that your engine is using,
you can use these tools.
For node, there is a website, node.green.
And for browsers, caniuse that's
a website that we typically use for
browser APIs,
has also a section of ECMAScript.
Okay, so let's see this in action.
This is node green.
Actually, the website is
confusing at first, okay?
So because we have a lot
of information here, but
you will see here different columns for
node versions.
So these are the node versions.
So if you are in node 2014, you can
see here all the compatibility table.
And then you have all the features
available in ECMAScript.
So you can see that modern Node.js is
currently running most of the stuff,
everything seems green, right?
So if we scroll down,
we will start seeing some red at some
points because these are new things.
For example, ES2024, okay,
so things that are not yet
at the time of doing this
workshop is not yet published.
So ES2024 is not yet published.
So yeah,
here you can see that from Node 20,
most of the ES2024 features
are implemented, but
not Unicode 15.1, for example, okay?
So in case you have a question
about your Node version,
you can go to this website and check that.
Now for the browser, you go to,
can I use /ecmascript and
you will find a lot of subgroups
here from ECMAScript 5.
And then we have version by version, for
example, ECMAScript 2017, 2018, 2020.
And here you can go to
the feature support list where
you will see feature by
feature on ECMAScript 2020
which versions
are implementing that feature.
Because sometimes a browser
might partially implement
a version of ECMAScript.
Okay, it's not so common, but
it happens a lot of times.
Okay, makes sense?
So you go here and say, okay, from 2020,
we can see that right now 96%
of the current market share
of people browsing the web
can support that version.
There are still IE users that,
of course, is red.
So there are still people on IE.
Opera Mini, this is a mobile browser.
But most of the things are already
compatible with 96, 97%, okay?
And also you can customize here and say,
I want only mobile, only desktop or
you can see the information only for
one region or country as well.